blog: Add "OCI Runtime Spec v1.2" (#150)
opencontainers/opencontainers.org: content/posts/blog/2024-02-19-oci-runtime-spec-v1-2.md

---
title: OCI Runtime Spec v1.2
author:
  name: Open Container Initiative
  tag: oci
tags: blog
date: 2024-02-19
---

We are delighted to annouce the release of the [OCI Runtime Spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec) v1.2.0.

> This release contains [about 10 pull requests](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/milestone/19?closed=1) that were merged in the last three years.

Reviewer: Looks more like 7 months, it might be easier to call out the previous release.

```suggestion
This release contains [about 10 pull requests](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/milestone/19?closed=1) that were merged since the 1.1.0 release.
```

# Additions

## [config: add idmap and ridmap mount options (#1222)](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/pull/1222)

Linux mount options have been expanded to include idmap and ridmap. These options are not passed directly to _mount(2)_ but require processing by runtimes.
The addition of such dummy options might impact existing runtimes; however, it has been confirmed by maintainers that there are no issues with at least crun and youki.
This enhancement was made to solve the issue that the IDMapping field introduced in [v1.1](https://opencontainers.org/posts/blog/2023-07-21-oci-runtime-spec-v1-1/#config-add-idmapping-field-for-mount-point-1143httpsgithubcomopencontainersruntime-specpull1143) could not apply `MOUNT_ATTR_IDMAP` and `AT_RECURSIVE` together, necessitating an expansion of the field.

## [config: add support for org.opencontainers.image annotations (#1197)](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/pull/1197)

The org.containers.image has been added as a reserved annotation. Each field is linked with the OCI Image Spec, so please refer to the following for more details.  

> https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc2/conversion.md#annotation-fields

Reviewer: We finally released the image spec:

```suggestion
https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/v1.1.0/conversion.md#annotation-fields
```
